# The Nows

It is known by none but Zennies, The First to Exist, how many nows there were before the Hours and Days began, what is known is that in the final Now there existed Zennies, The Stasis, who was also The Nothing. The Stasis, so distraught by their own failings willed into being Projo, The Seer so that they may have a companion. In the moment The Seer manifested he split into two. Projo's compliment called Yeast, The Rememberer, was like her twin also The Seer.

Zennies, The Static One, found himself caught always between The Twins such that he would gaze upon Projo when looking forward and upon Yeast when looking behind. Zennies, The Void, and The Seers became the First Trinity and the Nows faded and the Hours began. 

# The Hours

In the first Hour Projo, He who Envisions, spoke with his twin of their parent, The Nothing's, many lackings. Yeast's parent, He who Exists, upon hearing his children speak became unhappy with his formlessness. It was thus, in the first Hour, that Zennies performed his second act of will and The Nothing fragmented becoming many. These many included Solm, She who Illuminates, Flax, She of Substance, and Kin, The Forces. With this act of will Zennies's, who was now called The Scattered, brought an end to the first Hour. 

In the second Hour after the birth of The Twins, Flax, The Great Nurturer, who was then lonely asked of her younger sibling to bring her closer to her older sister, who was then the favorite of Zennies, Parent of All. From this event hence all daughters of Flax would seek to be near the daughters of Solm, though they would find themselves in constant competition with Zennies, The Jealous, for the attention of Solm and her kind for The Scattered too seeks to bask in their attention. 

To mark the beginning of the third Hour jealous Zennies, Parent of All and Nothing, created another child whom he cast upon his middle daughter to blanket her from the rays of Solm's affection. This child who is called The Cleanser did as his parent bade him, blocking from Flax, The Living One, all the warmth Solm sent her. Upon seeing this Kin, Mover of all things, who had no love for their parent, The Stasis, but much for their sisters created a daughter of their own whom she called Shiver, The Northern Wind. Kin sent Shiver to Flax and bade her destroy The Cleanser or otherwise remove him from Flax. Try though she might Shiver, The Relentless, could not completely separate her uncle, Clurses, from Flax but instead scattered him and blew him about so that sometimes Flax would receive Solm's warmth and affection and other times Clurses would come between the sisters. 

Despite the aid she received from Shiver, sometimes called Breeze, her niece, Flax's anger continued to grow as she felt that her parent, who was once Nothing, had shunned their battle for Solm's attention. This anger built through the third Hour and as the fourth was dawning Flax erupted no longer able to contain her anger, an act that would split and blemish her once smooth face creating deep wounds that smoked from her anger. Clurses understanding the part he played in Flax's anger and holding himself accountable for her pain began to weep. He wept for the entirety of the Hour, where his tears landed Flax began to heal. It is unknown if was Clurses's tears or Flax's healing that gave birth to Levith and the twins Seva and Yajgul but it was at this time the three of them appeared and began to populate life on Flax. Levith created creatures to swim in the tears that filled Flax's, no healed, wounds, while Seva and Yajgul brought life to those parts of her face that yet remained above water. Even Barren Shiver was so moved by the events of the fourth Hour that she allowed life into her domain. 

In the fifth Hour those who resided upon Flax Shiver, Levith, Seva, and Yajgul, as well as Clurses who lived above her became known as The Dwellers and they began to multiply until they were many. This pleased Flax, and eased the tension between her and her parent. It was then as the fifth Hour was ending that Projo, Who Sees, and his twin, Who Remembers, saw all that had passed since they came from The Nothing and saw too that the Hours were at an end. The Twins brought into being a third Seer to complete themselves, they called this one Hour, The Keeper, and with her appearance the Hours came to and end and the first Day began. 

# The Days

## The First Day

In the beginning of the first Day the Dwellers who had by that time taken up domains upon Flax had ceased to multiply and numbered in the many. Though they were many and surrounded by the plants and animals they had created the Dwellers were often lonely in their domains. This loneliness is what lead several of those who reside upon Flax to create lesser beings for company, beings that would be placed between the life that then populated Flax and the Dwellers themselves; these beings would become collectively known as the strains. 

The first and eldest of the strains are the Mablen, the children of Igno, who holds dominion over the quarries. The Mablen were created with the wisdom of ages so that they may shepherd the strains who were to come after them. Igno, who often changes but never ceases, created her children so that their names would never leave Hour's tome. The Mablen's creation instilled music into Flax's ears as their voices resonated with all creates, Strains, Dwellers, and Ohma alike. The Mablen numbered in the few but those few held the resolve of legion. The Mablen went forth from the Great Quarry where they were crafted in order to obtain understanding of the many domains of Flax and in search of the younger strains that were to come after them so they may  guide them in the ways of Igno, the Stone Mother. 

Second born of the strains were the children of Abef, who possessed great love of Flax's cliffs and many peaks. Abef taught his children, who were called Gusten, to take pleasure in the smallest of things  so that even the barren peaks might bring them great joy. The Gusten thrived under Abef's guidance in the first Day and expanded to peaks across the face of Flax. 

Milnaught, the Mountain Mistress, created her children on the mountain side. She taught them to be strong  and independent and full of pride. Milnaught's children were raised also by Shimmer, the Changeling, who taught them how to grow to their own liking rather than follow their original course. Each of these children prospered and together became known as the Tor'leni. The Tor'leni proliferated slowly and so did not greatly expand their lands during the first Day. 

At the same time that Shimmer, who is also known as Pattern, and Milnaught were shaping the first Tor'leni, Siyon, of the swamps, and his twin Eightoo, Lady of the Wood, decided that they too ought to create strains so they may honor Flax. Rather than working together, as Milnaught and Pattern, had done, these twins chose to compete with their creations. Siyon created the Garjants, who always grow, to rule over her bogs with great strength and ferocity. The Wood Mistress chose a different route than her twin, she created smaller creatures imbued with great mobility of both body and wit. It was Eightoo's children, the Denja, who were the first strain to be found by the Mablen and with their aid were the first to create and enforce formal rules for them all to live by. Despite the great differences in these two strains they have from their beginnings thought of each other as cousins and to this day view one another as family. 

Term, he who is Soil, his friend Free, the Jokester, and Free's sibling Bodeen, the Laborer, sought together to create a strain that would be superior to all others, a strain that would be a model for others to follow. Their children were one strain of three varieties, each primarily influenced by one of their creators, The Lawgiver, The Imbiber, and the Worker. collectively called Teejee, this strain which was the last to come in the first Day, established an expansive empire beneath the surface of Flax, hidden from the other strains but for their forays to the surface to harvest food. 

In what remained of the first Day the strains born in that time, called the Ancients, multiplied and spread further over Flax, the Nurturer. It was when the first name was erased from Hour's book so that none save Yeast remembered it that the first Day ended. 

## The Second Day

Upon seeing the beauty of the strains Clurses, The Ambitious, decided that he too would create a strain to spread across Flax. He recognized the various limitations of the other strains and striving to outdo the younger Dwellers he created not just the strain Sapeen, the masters of beasts, but also many creatures adapted for the strain's use, these creatures include all all those who birth live babes, donkeys, goats, sheep, and oxen. The Sapeen, with the benefit of domesticated animals, quickly spread over the the face of Flax. Sapeen were everything Clurses wanted, their ingenuity allowed them to survive in any of Flax's many climates, and adapt to changing situations quickly. With the guidance of the Mablen Sapeen tribes quickly were entrenched all across Flax.

Until the spread of the Sapeen there had been little conflict between strains. The first battle to be fought upon Flax was between the Sapeen and the Teejee. The Sapeen, unaware of the underground complexes the Teejee lived in, began to collect fruit from fields the older strain had planted. The field did not produce a large enough harvest to feed both the Sapeen tribe and the Teejee complex. The Teejee drew first blood, killing many of the Sapeen gathering fruit. Until this time warfare was unknown upon Flax but the Sapeen, to whom the name Inventor is rightly given, rapidly developed methods of fending off the Teejee. War raged between the two groups for half of the second Day before a lost Denja learned of the situation and brought the two groups together for mediation, introducing diplomacy to Flax. This first war last but a short time but with the first blood spilled the strains would never cease warring for long. 
